Wellington & District Pool League
CONSTITUTION - SEPTEMBER 2013

1. Name
The league shall be known as the 'Wellington & District Pool League'.

2. Eligible Voters
Eligible voters at the AGM will be: the committee, any players from the summer season or Captain/Representative of any team entered for the forthcoming season.

3. Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting shall be held no later than second Thursday of September of each year. At this meeting the following business shall be transacted.
- Statement of the year progress by the chairman.
- Minutes of the last AGM.
- Presentation and adoption of statement accounts.
- Report from the fixtures secretary.
- Alteration to 'rules' (any proposed changes to the constitution or rules should be advised to the league secretary two weeks prior to the AGM for inclusion in the agenda).
- Election of the officers to the committee in the following order: Chairperson, Secretary, Competitions secretary, Fixtures secretary, Treasurer, Vice Chairperson and Landlords Representative, then any other position the meeting so wishes. (Only three of these positions will automatically put up for election at any one AGM to maintain continuity of the committee).

4. Committee Powers
The elected committee shall have the power to apply, act upon and enforce the rules of the league and shall have jurisdiction over all matters affecting the league, including any not provided for by the rules.

5. Extraordinary General Meeting
An Extraordinary General Meeting may be called by the committee or by the secretary receiving a request signed by seven or more current League team Captains. At least 21 days notice shall be given of all meetings under this rule, together with an agenda of the business to be transacted at such meetings.

6. Captains Meetings
Captains meetings shall be held a minimum of once per annum and will be called by the committee or if requested by seven or more captains.

7. Committee Meetings
Committee meetings shall be held as and when required.

8. Non-Attendance at Captains Meetings
Non-attendance at Captains meetings will be finable, Captains or team representatives accepted.
- With apology: 1st offence - no fine, 2nd offence - £1.00
- Without apology: 1st offence - £1.00, 2nd offence - £2.00
- Committee members - double fines

9. Team Venue Changes
A team moving venues must take 4 or more registered players to retain their status within the league.

10. Entry Closing Date
The closing date for entries into the Winter League will be the date of the AGM. No entries will be accepted after this date regardless of the captains or teams former status within the league. The commencement of the new season shall be no later than the second week of September.

11. Under 18s Policy
In compliance with the LVA ruling, no one under the age of 18 shall be allowed to play in a LVA public house without express permission of the landlord/landlady. Visiting teams shall request permission from the opposition's landlord/landlady at least 24 hours in advance of a match before allowing anyone under the age of 18 to play at an away venue. The responsibility for policing this age policy lies with the team captain and not the Wellington & District Pool League, its committee or the Landlord.

12. League Area
The Wellington & District Pool League shall be within the following area: from Wellington by-pass to the Catherine Wheel, Hemyock, back to the Blue Ball, Sampford Moor, Prince of Wales Inn, A38 to Ayshford Arms, back to the A38 into Holywell Lake, over Langford Common, to Wiveliscombe, to The Rock Inn at Waterrow, back to Wiveliscombe then to Silk Mills via Halse, Bishops Lydeard and Norton Fitzwarren, back along A38 to starting point.

13. Collection of Trophies
No one team member can collect more than one others players trophies for their non-attending team members. Uncollected trophies will be re-cycled and re-used for future seasons.
