Wellington & District Pool League
MATCH RULES - SEPTEMBER 2024

1. Table Requirements
To enable a team to qualify for League membership, the team must be able to provide a home pool table with minimum playing surface of 6' x 3', which must be available for use when required for home games.

2. Game Rules
Game rules will be those laid down by the E.P.A., which are in affect from the start of the season.

3. Team Size
A team must consist of a minimum of 5 registered players and a maximum of 12.

4. League Game Format
A league game will consist of two qualified league teams:
- A team where there are more than 2 members of a county Mens team are restricted to those players playing a maximum of 6 frames per match. Exemptions apply if an existing registered playing member is selected to play for county during the season, or if more than 2 county players are registered at the start of the season for the same team as the previous season.
- Up to 10 registered players may play at any one fixture, but no one player may play any more than 3 games at any one fixture. Should a team have less than 5 players then the last game in each 5 game section of the score card should be marked VOID and those games forfeited. If a team is short of 2 players the last 2 games in each section shall be marked VOID. A team consisting of less than 3 players does not constitute a team and rule 11 (a, b, & c) should be enforced.
- If a player is expected to arrive late but has not arrived by the 5th frame, at the consent of the opposing captain, the late arriving player's name should be entered in the 5th frame position and that frame skipped and played out of turn upon the arrival of the late player. If the player has not shown by the start of the 11th frame, then the previous two frames with that player's name will be marked VOID and those frames awarded to the opposition. The late player may however play his final game in the last set of five, providing he is present at the start of that frame.
- League matches will commence at 8.00 p.m. Any team not represented by 8.15 p.m. will forfeit one game and one game for every 10 minutes thereafter until 8.45 p.m. at which point the match will be considered CANCELLED WITHOUT NOTIFICATION thus enforcing rules 11 a, b & c.

5. Order of Play
The order of play is that of the official score card, i.e. 3 sets of 5 singles games. Each section should be completed before commencing the next. This order may only be altered at the consent of BOTH captains. Also see rule 4c & 6.

6. Score Card Procedure
The home team will fill out the score card first on the night of the league fixture. (Competitions see rule 20)
- The captain of either team reserves the right to enter the players' names on the card one at a time on the first 2 of the 5 games sets. On the last set of 5 games the home captain must complete all five entries at the start of that set. The away captain must also complete the last 5 entries, before the last game set commences.
- The away team players should be entered on the score card without repeating a pairing from a previous game.

7. Score Card Return
The WINNING team must post a picture of the score card on the League's Facebook page, no later than 12.00 noon Saturday following the fixture. Failure to do so will result in the deduction of 3 points from existing accumulated score. Responsibility for the scorecard always remains with the WINNING team.

8. Fixture Dates and Venues
All fixtures will be played on the date stated, at the venue stated on the fixtures list, unless by agreement of both team captains and notification to and agreement of the fixtures secretary.

9. Player Registration
All players must be registered. Points won by non-registered players will be awarded to the opposition. Up to 2 players may register on the back of the scorecard on the night of the fixture, until 4 weeks from the end of the league matches. After this time no new players may be registered and registered players who have not played a league game up to this point will not be allowed to play league games or subsequent team competition matches for the remainder of the season. Teams with 12 registered players cannot sign on any more players without first deleting an existing registered player from the team list. Deleted players who have played a match game for a team are not allowed to re-register or transfer to another team during that season.

10. Player Transfers
No transfer of players is allowed during the playing season, unless at the committee's discretion. The playing season shall run from pre-season captains meeting to completion of the end of season competitions.

11. Cancellation of Fixtures
- Cancellation of a fixture without notification will be deemed Gross Misconduct and fineable: 1st offence - 6 point deduction; 2nd offence - 9 point deduction; 3rd offence - Team expelled from league (see rule 14). Cancellations notified to the opposing team before 7.30pm on the night of the fixture will not be finable but rules 11b & c will apply.
- In all cases cancelling a match will result in a 3 point deduction from the cancelling team's existing accumulated score, regardless of the reason for cancelling the match. It is the cancelling captain's responsibility to inform BOTH the Venue/Landlord and the Fixtures Secretary of the cancellation.
- In all cases the match must be played within 21 days or within 8 days of the end of the season whichever is sooner. Failure to do so may result in the committee deciding on the penalty for the offending teams and the result of the match (i.e. points awarded).

12. Match Referees
Match referees may be appointed with the consent of both captains.

13. Team Continuity
If a team changes team name, captain or venue between one season and the next, it will be considered the same team as far as league status is concerned if 4 or more players from the previous season are signed for the new team for the new season. League status is defined as a team which qualified for promotion or qualified by league table position at the end of the previous season for first or premier divisions. Only genuinely new teams will be entered as a new team in the lower division, except where the new team is known to have a high standard of players (ie. County players) and may be placed in the higher divisions (also see rule 23).

14. Team Expulsion or Withdrawal
A team expelled, withdrawing or failing to complete fixtures will be deleted from the division and all points previously awarded to opposing teams will be subtracted. The team may also be refused entry to the league in the future.

15. Competition Commitments
Players not fulfilling their singles and doubles knockout commitments without notice may have their entries refused in future competitions.

16. Appeals
Any appeals in connection with any penalties or fines should be made in writing to the League Secretary, together with a £5.00 deposit which may be forfeited as the committee sees fit. All appeals will be dealt with at the next captains' meeting or AGM whichever is sooner.

17. Non-Team Competitions Break
In all non-team competitions, a lag at the start of the frame will determine who breaks. During non-team competitions, every frame thereafter will alternate. There will be no need to toss a coin or lag again, even if the score is drawn at any point in the game set. An 8 Ball break during any competitions does not qualify for reward.

18. Doubles and Scotch Partners Communication
No discussion between Doubles/Scotch Partners is permitted during competition frames, once the first ball has been struck at the start of their visit (the moment the Cue Ball is struck) and continues until they are no longer ON and their visit ends. Failure to comply results in a standard foul. Discussion, Consulting or Conferring includes other non-verbal communication.

19. Shot Clock
All players should play their shot within a reasonable time frame, 90 seconds is considered reasonable. If the shot has not been played within this reasonable time frame, the opposing player (or appointed referee) should verbally remind the player of this, who will then have a maximum of 30 seconds after this reminder to play the shot. If the player fails to play the shot within the 30 seconds then they will forfeit their turn and will have committed a standard foul.

20. Team Competition Procedure
The Home Team will be decided on the toss of a coin, the winner choosing home or away. For the first 10 frames, the home team will initially enter just ONE name. The away team will immediately enter TWO names on their side. Each side will then alternate, entering TWO names at a time when required. On the last set of 5 games the home captain must complete all five entries at the start of that set. The away captain must also complete the last 5 entries, before the last game set commences. Each frame break will be decided by a lag.

21. Pro-Cup Balls
The Home Team has the choice of whether to use Pro-Cup Balls or not if they are available.

22. 8 Ball Break
An 8 Ball Break is only achievable from a break. That is any break however come by, whether by winning the toss of coin or winning the lag, and electing to break or by way of re-rack after a foul break. A white ball off the table from a break does not qualify.

23. Division Structure
The League will endeavour to split the divisions evenly to ensure equal number of byes if required.
- The Premier Division may have more than 10 teams, contrary to the original format decided years ago.
- Third and fourth finishing teams in lower divisions as a result of the change may get promoted.
- New teams with known high standards of play (ie. County players) may be placed in the higher divisions.
- The bottom two teams for the previous year's Premier division will always be demoted.

24. Abusive Behaviour
Abusive behaviour, whether verbal or physical, will not be tolerated at any League match or competition, and may if reported result in the committee deciding the penalty up to and including suspension or expulsion from the League.

25. Committee Final Authority
If the committee considers that any of the rules herein have been misused or abused then they will take it upon themselves to take whatever action they consider necessary. In all cases the Committee's decision is final and binding.
